In SQL we have 5 sublanguages that are:
DDL - Data Definition Language
It is used to define ,modify and delete the structure of database like tables,views and indexes.
DDL works on database design or structure
All DDL commands are auto commited that means changes made cannot be roll back once it was executed.

commands:
1.CREATE - It is used to create a table or database.
         syntax: create table table_name(
                   col_name1 datatype(size),
                   col_name2 datatype(size),
                   ........
                   ........
                   );

2.Alter - It is used to update the structure of the column like adding a column or updating data types in the column or updating the column name like that.
          Syntax: Alter table table_name add column_name datatype(size);

3. Drop - This command is used to delete entire table perminantly.
           Syntax: Drop table table_name;
4. Truncate - This command is used to delete the all data present inside the table but table structure cannot be deleted.
             Syntax: Truncate table table_name;
5. Rename - This command is used to rename the table_name or column_name.
             Syntax: for table name: Rename table old_table_name to new_table_name;
             for column name: Alter table table_name
                               rename old_column_name to new_column_name;
   

DML - Data Manipulation Language
- DML commands are mainly used to manipulate the data inside the table.
- It effects the data only on the table.
- DML commands can be rolledback if not commited.
  1. Insert - This command is used to add the data after creating the table.
             Syntax: Insert into table_name(col1,col2,col3,.......) values
                     (val1,val2,val3........);
  2. Update - This command is used to modift the data inside the table.
              Syntax: Update table_name set column_name = new_value
                       where condition;
  3. Delete - This command is used to delete the records inside the table
               Syntax: Delete fro table_name
                       where condition;
DQL - Data Querying Language
- DQL commands are used to retrive or fetch the data from the database.
- It does not modify the data but it only queries the data and displays the result based on the given condition.
1. Select - This command is used to fetch the data from database.
             Syntax : Select col1,col2,col3....... from table_name where condition;
DCL - Data control Language
- DCL command is used to control access and permissions to the data stored in database table.
- They are mainly used by database administrators to manage what and who can view the data, modify or manipulate the data.
1. Grant - This command is used to grant specific permissions to access the database for users.
           Syntax - Grant privilate_name on object_name
                     to user_name;
2. Revoke - This command is used to stop the permissions which are previously granted permissions to users.
            Syntax: Revoke privilage_name on object_name;
TCL - Transaction Control Language.
- TCL commands are used to manage transactions in a database.
- A transaction is a logical unit of work that includes one or more SQL statements.
- TCL ensures that all operations within a transactions are completed successfully if not it rollbacks the changes to maintain data consistency.
1. Commit : This command is used to save the changes made by the data manipulation commands perminantly in database.
             Syntax: DML queries
                     commit;
2. Rollback : This command is used to undo the changes made during the current transactions before they are commited.
               Syntax: DML queries
                       Rollback;
3. Savepoint - This command is used to create a temporary marker in a transaction.
- we can rollback to specific point instead of undoing the entire transaction.
  Syntax: Savepoint point_name;
